---
title:  "This is how I roll! Roles in Life and Lockdown"
date:   2020-06-05 12:04:23
categories: [life]
tags: [life]
---

As humans, we take on many roles in life. Over the years, I have found that spending too much time in only one role does not allow me to live a fulfilled life. If Work-Dora gets 80% of my waking time, I will feel worn out after a while. Spending the other 20% with friends and family, I felt that I did not have enough time to myself. After that realization, I fell into the other extreme and spent most of my time in Enjoy-Dora mode. That was nice in the beginning, but soon I felt like not using my time productively. In this article, I present all different types of Dora and describe how they handle the shelter in place.

**Work-Dora**

Work-Dora spends her time mostly working on research projects. That includes thinking about new research ideas, coding and data work, understanding methods, and writing. Work-Dora will also attend seminars, do some teaching, answer emails, organize professional group activities. Sometimes, Work-Dora tends to worry too much about the future and procrastinate when facing difficult tasks. But then, Improve-Dora is there to help.

During lockdown, Work-Dora is working on the first draft of the job market paper and worries about not getting a job. After being discouraged for a while, she found new motivation by allowing herself some time every day to think about new, exciting research ideas.

**Friend-Dora**

Friend-Dora likes to spend time with her social network (partner, family, and friends), even if it is from far away. She likes to invite some friends to her home and visit friends at theirs. But Friend-Dora also gets exhausted quite quickly when there are too many people around and conversations fail to become meaningful and deep. Friend-Dora is happy most of the time, but gets sad when there are not many friends around and the existing contacts are too superficial.

Friend-Dora wanted to schedule one call per day with friends and family while working from home. But temporarily living in a shared flat proved to be enough friend-time, so Friend-Dora often feels peopled-out and is looking forward to moving back to her own place again.

**Sports-Dora**

Sports-Dora likes to run, dance, and bike. She gets frustrated with high intensity sports and is not too ambitious in terms of speed. Sports-Dora's goal is to feel good while moving, not to break records.

With the lockdown not being very strict in Switzerland, Sports-Dora follows a training plan for a half-marathon. She enjoys that the training plan includes two days of cross-training which she spends either on bike tours or doing strength training and mobility exercises.

**Improve-Dora**

Improve-Dora loves self-improvement. She constantly analyzes the other -Dora's lives and comes up with ideas on how to tweak little aspects of them. Most self-improvement topics are about health, nutrition, and Work-Dora's productivity. Improve-Dora tries different diets, meditation practices, project planning tools, and stretching routines.

Working from home feels like an opportunity for endless self-experiments to Improve-Dora. She tries to help Work-Dora overcome some motivational downs in PhD life. She also started intermittent fasting by leaving out breakfast which results in more time in the morning.

**Enjoy-Dora**

I became aware of Enjoy-Dora recently. With all that work, sports, and self-improvement, I forgot to just do things with the sole purpose of enjoyment. Since then, I try to give Enjoy-Dora some time every day to do something for fun. Enjoy-Dora loves writing, do-it-yourself projects of any kind, reading books, and lying in the sun.

Enjoy-Dora is currently writing this blog. In the evenings, she reads a book. She is looking forward to new do-it-yourself projects that she can do in her flat.

**What are your roles in life?**

Maybe your profiles are different than mine. Maybe you are a parent. Maybe some roles that I summarized in one are more prominent for you and should be separated. Which roles get most of your attention? What are the topics that you are always most concerned about? To me, that is my work role. Which roles do you neglect? I find it hard to always make time for pure enjoyment or just being alone and relaxing. And what would be an ideal allocation of your time among these roles? I like to spend a big chunk of my time in work mode. I like my work (at least most of the time) and I feel a sense of accomplishment and self-worth stemming from it. But I do not like to spend all my time in work mode. Of course it is possible to focus on just a few of these roles for a while. But the question is how long you can suppress your other roles without negative consequences. Standard working hours tell us to be in our work role from 9-5 on Monday through Friday. Now is a great time to question that and find out what works for you!
