---
title:  "Free Coaching"
date:   2020-03-26 13:04:23
categories: [remote work]
tags: [remote work]
---

The aim of the PhD is to acquire the skills that make you an excellent researcher. On the way, I learned some valuable lessons about self motivation, autonomy, stamina, and priorities. If I was American, I would probably claim that during my time as a researcher, I learned to master self-isolation and remote work. But I grew up in Germany, so let me just say that I have a lot of experience with working on my own. There are always ups and downs, but the longer I am writing my thesis, the better I get at recognizing a down and turn it into an up.

During these pandemic times, many of you have to self-isolate and work remotely. Even some of my introverted friends are now afraid of being alone for an extended period of time. My studies do not enable me to help on the medical front where you save lives. But they do enable me to help anyone who has to work remotely in isolation. That is why I would like to offer free coaching for anyone  who feels they could benefit from it. If you are interested, you can sign up [here](https://doodle.com/poll/c89iwcc7aypzbmr6 "Link to Doodle") for a 30 minute Skype session. Please leave your Skype name and I will add you shortly before our meeting. During the call, we can discuss your biggest problem regarding this time of self-isolation. Are you afraid of being on your own for so long? I have been there. Do you feel your productivity is just not as high as it is in an office setting? I feel you. Are you only able to work very little and wasting your time on Netflix? Or are you working like crazy because there is nothing else to do? Both situations are familiar to me. I'm happy to share how I solve these issues both in a call and in the next posts on this blog.
